[MUSIC]
So we'll talk a little bit about exception
handling and how we use it with sockets.
Exception handling is useful,
because sockets can go wrong and
we want to able to catch that.
So errors during execution.
Any Python program can have
errors during execution, and
part of writing really robust
code is handling those errors.
So anticipating classes of
things that might go wrong, and
then handling them in some way.
Writing some code that deals
with the error somehow.
Now this isn't, we're not heavily
talking about error handling.
But with sockets, we really want to
a little bit, because there are so
many errors that can happen, so
many conditions that can happen.
You really want your code to be a little
bit robust in the face of these errors.
So errors can happen when
you're working with sockets.
Really it can happen anywhere.
They can happen when you're
working with sockets,
common things like
sockets cannot be opened.
So you try to open a socket on
another end, and you can't open it.
Maybe the server is not there,
or something like that, right?
Data can't be sent for some reason,
data might be blocked.
This type of thing happens in networks,
right?
So there are lots of errors that can
happen when you're using sockets.
And you want to be able
to handle these errors.
You don't want your machine to just,
your code to just crash every time.
Something like that happens, you like
it to be able to print a response,
tell you what's going on at least.
So when errors happen during execution,
they're called exceptions.
And this isn't just with sockets,
this is just in general, in Python or
other languages you have
what are called exceptions.
Exceptions that are raised, or
thrown, however you want to call it.
There are many types of
exceptions that can be raised for
different functions, okay?
So the exception type,
tells you what kind of thing went wrong.
So for instance, you can have
an exception, a ZeroDivisionError, right.
And if that exception happens,
you know somebody tried to divide by zero.
You can have a TypeError,
which means that you tried to perform
an operation on the wrong type,
like you tried to perform an add,
or a floating point add on an integer,
or something like this, right?
A type error.
So there are lots of different
types of error, error classes,
exception classes that can happen.
Depending on what kind of
function you're calling,
what kind of method you're calling.
And sockets have their
own set of errors and
exceptions that we're
going to want to handle.
For at least a sub set of them.
So handling exceptions, so
how do you handle in exception in general?
So when an error happens
the idea of handling exception is
when the error happens.
When the exception is raised, you want
your code to do something appropriate.
Now what it does,
is really what's appropriate really
depends on the application, okay?
And what the error is, but
you want something to happen.
You want to control what happens.
So the way you do this is you use
this try and accept statements.
So there are try and accept statements
that are built into Python,
which allow you to handle errors and
exceptions as they come up.
So what you do is, you place
the code with the possible error,
that you think will raise the exception,
you place that inside a try clause.
I'll show an example of this.
Then, after that try clause you have
what's called an accept clause.
And the accept clause contains code that
you want to execute when the try clause,
when the code inside the try clause throws
the exception, or raises the exception.
So to give you an example,
inside your try clause, you say z = x / y.
So that's the code that you
want to execute that you think
might raise an exception.
Maybe it's going to divide by zero.
Maybe y = 0.
Right?
Okay, so you suspect that this code
might raise this exception, so
I will put it inside this try clause.
Now then right after the try clause,
I have my except clause,
except ZeroDivisionError.
So if a ZeroDivisionError happens,
this except clause will be executed.
And in the except clause I just say
print("Divide by zero"), right?
So all this is really doing is just
reporting to me what the problem
was, right?
But the idea is,
that if inside this try clause,
an exception is thrown that matches
the exception after the word except, so
specifically zero division error.
If that exception is raised,
then the code inside the except
clause is executed, divide by zero.
It prints it anyway.
So in this case it's very
simple exception handling.
It's not going to fix anything, it's just
going to print to you what went wrong, and
that's all we're doing right now.
So, now we wouldn't do this for
sockets, so we have to know something,
some basics about the errors that
you can expect with sockets.
Some of the exceptions that can be raised.
And every different type of method has
different exceptions that can be raised.
And we're just going to do
a very easy job of this.
We only handle some very generic errors
and exceptions are going to be raised.
We're not going to go into great depth
with the exception handling, but
we need a little bit of it.
So socket.error that is
an exception that is just generic.
Any socket error is going to fall
into this class of socket.error.
Okay?
So that's just the most generic type
of socket exception that can be raised.
And another type of protection that can
be raised in the process is gaierror.
The gai stands for
detaddressinfo.error, right, gai error.
And remember, getaddressinfo that does
a DNS lookup, so you tell it www.
Google.com, you pass that as
an argument to getaddressinfo,
it'll tell you the IP address.
If there's an error in that process,
it doesn't find that host address,
then it will raise a gaierror.
Okay, so those are the two exception
classes that we want to be able to handle.
So we're going to change our code.
So we went through over
a series of slides.
We went through a generic client, okay,
a generic network client and
how you would make it.
Now we're going to enhance that client,
by adding try and
accept statements to catch some
of these errors as they occur.
And to just make the program more robust.
And when I say catch,
we're just going to report them.
We're just going to print this error
happened and that error happened.
Just so that it doesn't just
crash in a generic way,
at least we know how it failed,
if it fails.
So, here is our full on client program.
So, this is really combining
the slides that we did before,
that we've done over
the last few lectures.
And adding, trying and accept
clauses to make the code more robot.
Now, what I've done is I put in red,
highlighted in red, the actual code that
I want to execute and the rest of it.
Are the try and accept clauses, and the
accept clause is the error handling stuff.
Now you notice at the top, I import
the socket, I import the socket package,
I also import sys.
Now why do I import sys?
I import sys because I need to import the
sys package, so that I can call sys.exit.
Now the reason that I need sys.exit,
is because when these exceptions happen
in my code, so
Sam is trying to open a socket and
it fails, right, I'm trying to
get domain name and it fails.
When that happens I want to just exit,I
want to the quit the program, oKay?
In order to do that,
I need to call sis.exit, So
that's why I am importing the sis package.
So let's take a look at the beginning,
the first thing, the first try.
First line that's highlighted in red.
I'm creating the socket
we've already looked at.
So I create the socket, I call it my sock.
That's in my try.
Now you say accept, you see right
after it, acceptsocket.error,
print failed to create socket, sys.exit.
So it just prints an error report and
says, look, the socket creation failed,
for whatever reason, and it exits.
And it quits right there, it doesn't try
to execute the remaining lines of code.
So that's why I'm using sys.exit.
Now after I create the socket, the next
thing I try, the next line in red,
is host equals socket.gethostbyname,
so I'm trying to get the IP address.
I've tried that, and if that fails,
if my except socket.gaierror,
it says failed to get host and
it also does a sys.exit.
Now the next line of code creates
a connection to the host on port 80.
It creates a message, which is a generic
request message, which we've already seen.
Then does a try, try is to do a send.
Sendall.
So mysock.sendall's in the try, and
if there's a socket error on that,
it reports Failed to send and
sys.exit and quits.
Now, after that, data = mysock.recv,
so I'm receiving the data.
It's only receiving 1,000 bytes,
because that's the limit that
I arbitrarily put in there.
And that 1,000 bytes in this case
would be, since I'm requesting
a web page from Google, is whatever
appears on their first page right?
That would, that contents the HTML data,
the stuff that appears on the screen
that's what I'm receiving or
the first 1,000 bytes of that anyway.
Then I say print data, so I'm just
going to print that to the screen.
It's a pretty simple operation,
I print it, and
then I close the socket and that's it.
And this code will actually work,
and you should try this,
and you'll see that in another lecture.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]